all right crystal what's on your radar
Wow folks like me on the left who dare
to criticize the mainstream Democratic
Party are routinely attacked for
supposedly helping Trump or doing Trump
spitting when the truth is no one could
possibly have enabled and empowered
Trump more than the hashtag resistance
warriors who run the dumb establishment
of course we covered here how Dems
impeach Trump and then absurdly turned
right around and handed him a brand new
trade deal and broad ranging warrants
surveillance powers dem said a
multi-year long obsession with Russia
which made them into foolish McCarthyite
conspiracy theorists they then moved
quickly to Ukrainian gate an actual
corruption issue but one that was so
Byzantine and centred on elite national
security state drama that no normal
person could possibly care oh and which
also by the way implicated Democratic
frontrunner Joe Biden for good measure
great job there guys but I do want to be
fair Pelosi wore a powerful brooch for
the impeachment hearings and the yes
Queen's reverberate throughout all of
certain select segments of Twitter but I
confess I did allow myself to feel the
tiniest glimmer of a sentiment I can
vaguely recall from better times a
decadent and often false sentiment
called hope that stirred unbidden within
me at the very beginning of the bailout
negotiations now if you'll recall when
faced with McConnell's proffered massive
corporate slush fund
Dems actually did something that
appeared to maybe be brave and they
voted it down not once but twice Schumer
explained Democrats opposition in the
bill saying it included quote a large
corporate bailout with no protections
for workers and virtually no oversight
and he was right
so imagine my surprise when shortly
thereafter they went ahead and all voted
for a massive corporate bailout which
still had no protections for workers
great job there guys but we were assured
that the whole oversight issue had been
taken care of so at least while the
American people were getting built we'd
get a report on it after the fact and
incredible journalists like the ones we
try to feature on the show here and
glance dave day and Matt Taibbi etc
could tell us just how badly we all got
screwed at least it was something almost
instantly though even this tiny shred of
a concession was demolished when Trump
included a signing statement
the bill essentially saying he'd do
whatever over Saiki damn well pleased I
mean who could have seen that coming
certainly not the Democrats who spent
years railing about a lawless president
and then happily handed his
administration trillions of dollars in a
corporate slush fund to do with as they
please but as if that wasn't bad enough
yesterday in order to make it absolutely
clear to our slower friends in the Devon
party that he had no intention of
allowing any of this so-called oversight
to occur Trump fired the inspector
general who had been charged with the
task and instead installed a reliable
crony now you might be tempted to give
the Democrats the benefit of the doubt
here after all how do you deal with the
president who will just do whatever he
wants and dare the courts to stop him
but in fact in the bill it was always
clear that Trump would have the final
say over oversight as corruption expert
and activists effort each out pointed
out long before IG Glenn fine was ousted
Trump at ultimate authority over the IG
and the congressional committee would
have virtually no power I'm sure many of
you watching right now saw all of this
coming all the way along even though the
Democrats didn't but never fear everyone
Pelosi did declare herself to be
troubled by the president's actions so
the resistance theater troupe is all
over it the president removed the
chairman of the panel created by
Congress to oversee the management of
the two trillion-dollar stimulus package
do you know why Glenn fine was removed
from his post and is this a wise move I
mean is you know it shouldn't somebody
be watching over this yes and there the
president thinks he should be the one
and that's exactly upside down but guns
right yet
fine was appointed by the president just
around a week ago and now he's since he
was chosen by his colleagues to lead the
of the pandemic of committee Oversight
Committee he is now being removed by the
president president sending in some of
his loyalists so this is a really a
problem so just to summarize here they
missed their one chance to actually
extract anything and are now left with
strongly worded tweets and huffy cable
news segments the resistant drugs of
choice now after watching a dangerous an
outrageous election take place in the
middle of a pandemic thanks to
equivocating from democratic leaders up
to and
looting Joe Biden in immoral power
grabbing decisions by conservative
majorities on both the Wisconsin US
Supreme Court's Democrats have way too
late
realize maybe they should be fighting
for national mail-in ballot in November
of course whatever leverage they add is
long gone they didn't come out earlier
against in-person voting because it
served their interests to allow
elections to go forward in Illinois in
Florida in particular remember the DNC
even floated penalizing states that move
their primaries also that they could
make sure Joe Biden shows up the
nomination before anyone notices the
reality of his current state but never
fear just as she had a great plan for
corporate bailout provisions of which
she secured zero out of eight of her
demands Elizabeth Warren has a plan for
election security to I'm sure that GOP
will go right along with making it
easier to vote and rolling back their
multi decade-long project of restricting
the franchise to their own base there
was one thing that the GOP wanted and
needed and actually cared about and that
was the corporate bailout money that was
where Democrats could have had leverage
and could have actually extracted
something that served the interest of
working people or even their own power
interests like the voting issue there
was just one problem
Dems needed that corporate cash to
satisfy their own donors and lobbyists
friends too they put up a big show for
some fake oversight but in the end the
bipartisan pro corporate consensus once
again ruled the day and so good luck
getting any of Elizabeth Warren's
meaningless plan now you squandered your
only chance because you were complicit
and wanting to allow large
multinationals to cash in your corrupt
should not only left working people
twisting in the wind but will only once
again serve to empower Trump they're
having this fantasy now like they have
some kind of leverage in the next
negotiations McConnell doesn't want to
do anything what they do want to do and
it's just extension of the Paycheck
protection program but no they have zero
leverage whatsoever a lot of the people
don't have leverage the only people who
do or the ones who are willing to
actually hold up the process drag people
to Washington and to make them vote and
to negotiate that's it or the people are
willing to say no we don't need to do
anything stasis is like that is the
general direction of Congress so if
you're going to overcome that I mean
those are the folks our leverage is just
like no we're not going to do it but
forget as I covered she instituted a
select committee headed by the energetic
james Clyburn which has not actually
been instituted yet hasn't begun
investigating anything yet and which she
can hand pick all of the people on the
committee and turn it into the next
Ukraine investigating which I'm sure the
American people won't remotely see as
just partisan exercise of power I'm sure
it'll be taken all very seriously and
that's part of the issue again and again
if they don't believe I don't actually
think as you said that they believe in
any real oversight over this what they
want is the appearance of oversight
that's why they fought so hard for that
provision that none of trumps actual
companies would be able to benefit from
this because the appearance of fighting
and resistance is actually more
important than any real oversight of
real corporatism yeah and the cash that
comes out they don't care the cash is
going out by the boatloads and this is
the true bipartisan consensus they're
like oh well we need first of all you
know anything about this inspector
general I was reading about it
apparently the Obama administration also
gutted the Inspector General's like it
turns out when people are in charge of
the executive branch and they like to
roll
they don't have been and have wide
latitude to dismiss and mess with the
inspector general process they do so
it's been going all the way back
probably since the Nixon administration
and that's just one of those things
where Congress is generally toothless
and refuses to hold the executive in
both Republican and Democratic
administrations completely to account
because they don't want ultimately what
I realize is these people don't want the
actual responsibility of having to vote
for difficult bills because then they
can't campaign then people can campaign
against them they don't want real
oversight Authority because then it
would actually have to do something
instead of fundraising right they want
to outsource all of their real fiduciary
responsibilities and everything to the
agency so that they can blame the agency
while doing nothing themselves right
that's it I mean I do want to be fair
and I know you guys love tarp but
Aaron's points out on the show at least
there you had a list of every single
thing and in the stimulus every single
project that was funded so look people
may get screwed but at least after the
fact journalists could dig in and figure
out what happened we're not even going
to get that this time and it's it's on
obviously it's on Trump who's gutting
this provision and doesn't want any
oversights on the new chin who's gonna
be very influential in terms of how the
this massive amount of money is
distributed but Democrats if they
actually cared could have seen this
coming long before now
and you know they certainly talk about
how Trump will bend and break the rules
how he's lawless etcetera like did you
really think that you're a little
Inspector General line was gonna do
anything and the truth is no they didn't
think it was gonna really make a
difference they just wanted some cover
for themselves and the provision about
Trump's companies not getting any money
is the perfect example because while
they get to have that headline oh we won
this important concession Trump's not
gonna be able to cash in then you look
in the details of the bill guess what
one of the biggest tax benefits written
into this bill is for real estate
developers right like himself like Jared
Kushner etc but they got their headline
that's all they written they don't
really care and again you you cover this
correctly which is that at the end of
the day they need the cash too they need
the their donors brum they're their
people need the cast there's a reason
that the very first thing the very first
thing Nancy Pelosi said after phase
three was done is we need a salt cap
deduction removal that was it that's
what it was removing the salt cap which
only benefits people who make over two
hundred fifty thousand to a million
dollars disproportionately affect people
who make over a million dollars people
counter with let's reduce the capital
okay exactly shows you who's just to
true power centers of these things who
they want to fight for that tells you
everything you need to know here doesn't
care about inspector general ship I mean
I want it and people are like you think
Republicans want any oversight of this
money no but I think oversight is
actually important for public confidence
or you're gonna get another Occupy Wall
Street in three years and I think that's
probably gonna happen and you look at
this and I was like you know what
there's a real opportunity a real Truman
Truman committee let's look into the
into the money that's being doled out
was making sure that profit ears are
being investigated all that know she
appoints his james Clyburn committee you
know what's funny is she actually in
that interview clip that we showed of
Pelosi she actually that goes on to
mention the tribute oh I think she may
be a secret rising fan just getting
definitely bad yeah but if you actually
cared about that if you actually wanted
that like that ship has long sale of
course if you weren't willing to do what
it takes
and this goes back to the conversation
we're having about like it moral and
immoral actors in all of this because
they tied together the workers package
and the small business package and the
corporate piece I mean look I I don't
think Bernie Sanders should have voted I
think the populace should have banded
together I think they should have
opposed this loudly and vociferous Lee I
don't think they ultimately what should
have voted for it but they put them in
this terrible bind where it's like are
you gonna hold workers hostage are you
gonna hold workers hostage and keep them
from getting their benefits in a timely
manner because you know over here the
corporatists will go to the mat for
their masters you know they will do that
and so it becomes this almost impossible
negotiating game it's very hard it's
very hard for the people I've spoken to
when you're five versus ninety five and
they can they have the media on their
side they can kill you a really handle
you can crush you and then forever they
say why did you vote against worker help
but don't do that
Albany will do that I wonder of course
all right Sagra looking forward to your
radar that's sex